Skip to Main Content Credible Login Student Loan Refinancing Private Student Loans Personal Loans Mortgage Refinancing Mortgage Insurance Resources Company Legal Get Started Student Loan Refinancing Student loan refinance Student loan consolidationStart Your Refi Resources Best student loan refinance companies Student loan repayment calculator Student loan refinancing calculator How to pay off student loans Student loan forgiveness Learn more about student loan refinancing Private Student Loans Private student loans Graduate student loans Parent student loans Medical school loans Law school loans MBA loansFind Your Loan Resources How to pay for college Applying for FAFSA Best private student loans Student loan calculator Student loans without a cosigner Learn more about student loans Personal Loans Personal loans Debt consolidation loans Credit card consolidation loans Bad credit loans Home improvement loans Auto loansFind Your Loan Resources How to qualify How to get a loan How to pay off credit card debt Best personal loans Personal loan calculator Learn more about personal loans Mortgage Refinance Refinance your mortgage Today's refinance rates 30 year fixed refinance rates 15 year fixed refinance rates Cash-out refinance ratesStart Your Refi Resources How to refinance your mortgage How to get the best refinance rates Cost to refinance your home When to refinance Mortgage refinance calculator Learn more about mortgage refinancing Mortgage Mortgage Today's mortgage rates 30 year fixed mortgage rates 15 year fixed mortgage rates Jumbo loan ratesFind Your Loan Resources Qualifying for the best rate First time homebuyer tips How to buy a house How to get a mortgage Mortgage preapproval Learn more about purchasing a home Insurance Home Insurance Car InsuranceGet Quotes Resources Home insurance guide What home insurance covers How much home insurance you need Home insurance deductible How to change home insurance Learn more about home insurance Resources Blog FAQs Loan calculators Student loan score calculator Debt statistics Data insights Credible lender rating methodology Company About us Credible reviews Careers Press Partners Digital partners Employers Financial advisors Real estate agents Contact Call us now Email us Chat now Legal Terms of Use Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices GLBA Privacy Policy CCPA - Workforce Notice CCPA - B2B Notice Menu (866) 540-6005 support@credible.com Sign Up Student Loans Student Loan Refinancing Private Student Loans Compare Lenders Student loan refinance Student loan consolidationStart Your Refi Learn more Best student loan refinance companies Student loan repayment calculator Student loan refinancing calculator How to pay off student loans Student loan forgiveness Learn more about student loan refinancing Compare Lenders Private student loans Graduate student loans Parent student loans Medical school loans Law school loans MBA loansFind Your Loan Learn more How to pay for college Applying for FAFSA Best private student loans Student loan calculator Student loans without a cosigner Learn more about student loans Personal Loans Personal Loans Personal loans for all your financial needs - get prequalified in just 3 minutes Compare Lenders Personal loans Debt consolidation loans Credit card consolidation loans Bad credit loans Home improvement loans Auto loansFind Your Loan Learn more How to qualify How to get a loan How to pay off credit card debt Best personal loans Personal loan calculator Learn more about personal loans Mortgages Mortgage Refinance Mortgage Compare Rates Refinance your mortgage Today's refinance rates 30 year fixed refinance rates 15 year fixed refinance rates Cash-out refinance ratesStart Your Refi Learn more How to refinance your mortgage How to get the best refinance rates Cost to refinance your home When to refinance Mortgage refinance calculator Learn more about mortgage refinancing Compare Rates Mortgage Today's mortgage rates 30 year fixed mortgage rates 15 year fixed mortgage rates Jumbo loan ratesFind Your Loan Learn more Qualifying for the best rate First time homebuyer tips How to buy a house How to get a mortgage Mortgage preapproval Learn more about purchasing a home Insurance Insurance Compare custom fit options to find home and auto coverage that best suits your needs What We Offer Home Insurance Car InsuranceGet Quotes Learn more Home insurance guide What home insurance covers How much home insurance you need Home insurance deductible How to change home insurance Learn more about home insurance Resources Resources Build your financial knowledge with helpful tips & strategies from our team Blog FAQs Loan calculators Student loan score calculator Debt statistics Data insights Credible lender rating methodology Company Company At Credible, our first priority is you. Company About us Credible reviews Careers Press Partners Digital partners Employers Financial advisors Real estate agents Contact Call us now Email us Chat now Login Get Started Frequently Asked Questions Last Updated: July 19, 2023 Choose where you'd like to start: Student Loan Refi Student Loans Personal Loans SKIP TO OverviewRequesting prequalified ratesReceiving and choosing a prequalified rateCo-signers questionsAbout CredibleCredit considerationsMy accountContact us SKIP TO OverviewRequesting prequalified ratesReceiving and choosing a prequalified rateCo-signers questionsAbout CredibleCredit considerationsMy accountTable of Contents Overview How can Credible help me find a private student loan to help pay for school? Credible enables you to compare student loan products you prequalify for from multiple lenders side-by-side based on all of the criteria that are important to you, like total repayment amount, APR, repayment options, and monthly payment. It takes just two minutes to find out if you are eligible for prequalified rates with our partner lenders! How do I know if I am an eligible student? Determining your eligibility is simple — fill out our form, which takes less than two minutes, and if you are eligible you’ll instantly receive personalized, prequalified rates on your Credible Dashboard from all the partner lenders you qualify for. Typically, students must be enrolled in an educational program at least part-time in order to be eligible. If you’re younger than the age of majority in your state, you must also include a co-signer when you apply for a loan product. About 85% of Credible’s private student loan prospective borrowers apply with a co-signer. Co-signers can increase your chances of being approved by lenders, and may also help you get lower interest rates on your loan. Can I use Credible if I am an international student? Yes, international students are eligible to use our service and request prequalified rates from our partner lenders. However, international students must provide a U.S. address and apply with a creditworthy co-signer who is either a U.S. citizen or permanent resident. What kinds of loans does Credible offer to students? Credible allows students to request prequalified rates and compare private student loans options from multiple lenders. We’re not a lender, we’re a marketplace where lenders compete to give you the best loan products to meet your needs. Our partners offer multiple loan options for undergraduate, graduate, and other educational programs, with fixed or variable rate options, and a variety of repayment terms to suit your needs. You can find out more about our partner lenders by visiting our Lender Profiles page. What is the difference between federal student loans and private student loans? Federal student loans follow guidelines set by the U.S.Department of Education.They also come with borrower benefits such as deferment, forbearance and loan forgiveness.Eligibility for federal loans is determined by completing the Free Application for Federal Student Assistance (FAFSA).You can learn more about federal student loans by visiting studentaid.ed.gov. However, federal loans have borrowing limits, which may not allow a student to borrow enough to cover the entire cost of their education. A number of lenders offer private loans to help cover the remaining costs, and Credible allows you to compare these different private loan options side-by-side. We encourage students to apply for federal aid through the FAFSA and to explore scholarships and other aid options before considering a private student loan. You can learn more about federal vs. private student loans here. Do I need to file the FAFSA to use Credible? No, our partner lenders do not offer federal student loans, so you do not fill out the FAFSA to use our marketplace. How much can I borrow? Typically, our partner lender’s maximum loan amount is based on your school’s certified costs minus the amount of financial assistance you’ve already received (i.e. federal assistance, scholarships etc.) We encourage students to reach out to their financial aid office to get more information on their school’s certified costs. You can find out more about our partner lenders by visiting our Lender Profiles page. How much does it cost to use Credible? Nothing! Using our service is free. Our partner lenders do pay us a fee, but the fee does not impact the terms of your loan or the amount you pay the lender. Requesting prequalified rates Should I include my parents’ income in my Credible profile? All information that you provide (including your income and housing expenses) should pertain only to you as an individual, even if you live with your parents. If you include your parent as a co-signer on your request, they will list their income/expense information separately, as part of their Credible co-signer profile. Should I include my spouse or partner’s income in my Credible profile? All information that you provide (including your income and housing expenses) should pertain only to you as an individual, even if you are married. For example, if you only pay half of your monthly housing bill, only include your share and not the total amount paid by both you and your spouse/partner. If you include your spouse/partner as a co-signer on your request, they will list their income/expense information separately, as part of their Credible co-signer profile. What if I can’t find my school? Most of our partner lenders offer private student loan products to students enrolled at least part-time in most Title IV-eligible schools. If you cannot find your educational institution on our form, but believe it is a Title IV-eligible school, please select “Other – school not listed” and list your institution in the space provided. You can view a list of Title IV-eligible schools here. When and how will I find out about the prequalified options I’ve received after I submit my profile? If any of our partner lenders have loan options for you, you will see a notification on your Credible Dashboard within minutes of submitting your inquiry. Credible also will notify you about your options by email, phone, or text. We will only reach out once we have received responses from all potential lenders. Am I guaranteed to receive prequalified rates from every lender? You are not guaranteed to receive prequalified rates. Each of our partner lenders uses their own criteria to determine whether you are eligible for a prequalified rate, based on the information you provide and a soft credit inquiry authorized by you (which does not affect your credit score). You will receive prequalified rates from lenders if you meet their prequalification criteria. We also have some partner lenders who do not provide prequalified rates on our platform. You will see a link for these other partner lenders on your Credible Dashboard. You can submit a request for a loan product with them directly by clicking on the link on your Dashboard. And remember, the likelihood of receiving rates, or better rates, usually increases if you add a creditworthy co-signer. Am I accepting an offer by submitting my Credible profile? No, the prequalified rates on your Credible Dashboard are not offers of credit. By submitting your profile you are evaluating options from our partner lenders. Once you choose the option you’d like to move forward with, you will be asked to provide some additional information. At that point, the lender will evaluate your application using their specific criteria and conduct a hard credit inquiry to confirm your eligibility for their loan product. If your eligibility is confirmed, you will receive an offer from the lender. Then you will review whether that option is right for you (remember to read the lender’s terms of service, disclosures and other information provided carefully). If you still like what you see, you can choose to move forward with the offer and provide the lender with the documentation they request (e.g., verification of school enrollment, identification verification, etc.) Then, once everything is in order, you sign a promissory note and the lender will let you know when and how your funds will be disbursed. Can you tell me more about the lenders? We partner with a variety of lenders to provide you with a broad range of options. Our partner lenders offer private student loans for undergraduate, graduate, and other educational programs, repayment terms from 5 to 20 years, and fixed or variable rate options. You can find out more about our partner lenders by visiting our Lender Profiles page. Receiving and choosing a prequalified rate Do I have to choose an option if I receive prequalified rates from lenders? No, there is no obligation to choose one of the options presented on your Credible Dashboard. We recommend that you seek financial advice and evaluate all of your options to ensure that you make a decision that’s right for your own individual circumstances. Remember, it is important to read the information provided by the lenders such as their terms of use, privacy policy, and disclosures before making any decisions. I went through your process and did not receive any prequalified rates. What should I do next? Each lender partner will assess your eligibility for their loan products based on their eligibility requirements and underwriting criteria, the answers you provide on the prequalification form, and the soft credit inquiry you authorize (which does not impact your credit). If you do not meet a lender’s eligibility criteria, you will not receive prequalified rates from that lender. If you do not receive any prequalified rates, you’ll see a message about your other available options on your Dashboard. For example, if you are potentially eligible to receive prequalified rates by adding a co-signer, you will be presented with the option to add a co-signer. If you do not receive prequalified rates through Credible, you can always apply with your chosen lender directly. I only received one or two offers. Do I have more coming? No, Credible will only present your prequalified rates to you once we have received responses from all partner lenders. How long are my prequalified rates good for? Your prequalified rates are subject to change at any time. The rates you receive are based on certain criteria provided by our partner lenders that you met at the time you requested prequalified rates. Those criteria and your ability to meet them may change on an ongoing basis, the rate index on which those rates are based may change over time, and/or the lenders reserve the right to change or withdraw prequalified rates at any time. How do I choose one of the options I received from a lender? On your Credible Dashboard, you will be able to review the details of all of the options provided by our partner lenders. Once you decide which option is right for you, click “Select Lender” on the right side of the Dashboard. If you have any questions along the way, email us at support@credible.com. or call us at 866-540-6005. Am I guaranteed to receive an offer from a lender after I’ve been prequalified? No. When you receive prequalified rates, you’re getting an estimate of the rates you may be able to receive from our partner lenders. However, there is no guarantee that the rates you prequalify for are the rates you will ultimately receive, or that the lender will be able to extend you an offer of credit. After you get and choose a prequalified rate, you will fill out some additional information with the lender you chose. Once you provide additional information (which takes about 10 minutes to complete, on average), the lender will conduct a hard credit inquiry and may request additional documentation from you. Lenders will decide to extend you credit based on whether you still meet the criteria used to prequalify you, your ability or inability to provide the documentation requested, or based on any other applicable criteria. Lenders also reserve the right to change or withdraw prequalified rates at any time. My Dashboard shows me options with different repayment plans. What do the different repayment options mean? The lenders we partner with offer loans with several different repayment plans while you are enrolled in school (not all of these options are available for all loan products or from all partner lenders): Immediate Payment: Full payments begin shortly after the loan is disbursed. Interest Only: Only make interest payments while you are in school. Flat In-School Payment: Make a flat payment of both interest and principal, lower than a full payment, while you are in school. Full Deferral: Payment is completely deferred until after you graduate, typically for a period of six months. But interest starts accruing as soon as funds are disbursed. You can learn more about the different repayment options here. How long does it take from the time that I choose a prequalified rate on my Credible Dashboard before the lender responds with an offer of credit? Assuming you have correctly completed your request for a loan, the lender typically will respond to you within 1-2 business days. You will receive their response on your Credible Dashboard and via email. How long does it take between the time I accept an offer of credit from a lender until the time the funds are disbursed? Typically, the funds will be disbursed once your school's Financial Aid Office certifies the funds and accepts them. It is common for schools to accept funds on a specific date before the semester. The best thing to do would be to contact your school's financial aid office to determine if they have set that date. The most common reasons for delays are as follows: Delays by the borrower or co-signer in responding to the lender’s request for documentation; Incomplete information on borrower or co-signer’s application; Incomplete documentation provided by the borrower or co-signer in response to the lender’s request for documentation; or Delays in the lender receiving the certification from the borrower’s school’s financial aid office, certifying school costs. Can the funds be disbursed to me directly? Most student loans are disbursed directly to the school you are attending. If there are any overages or additional funds, your school will work with you directly. What types of documentation do lenders request in support of a loan application? Lenders usually require sufficient documentation to verify your identity such as a driver’s license or passport, income verification such as pay stubs, W-2’s, or 1099’s, and a certification of costs from your school. Co-signers questions Do I need a co-signer? You do not have to add a co-signer unless you are under the age of majority in your applicable state or if you are an international student seeking an private student loan. However, if you have a limited or poor credit history, adding a creditworthy co-signer can improve your chances of qualifying for a loan. Credible has a great tool that allows you to see what loan products and rates you would qualify for if you added a co-signer. You can try the tool with multiple co-signers and compare how each one improves your rates, or you can decide to continue alone. Just like for borrowers, it takes just two minutes for a co-signer to complete the prequalification form, and checking prequalified rates does not affect the co-signer’s credit score. Who can serve as my co-signer? A co-signer can be a spouse, relative, parent, or any adult that is a U.S.Citizen or Permanent Resident Alien.A co-signer is responsible for repaying the loan if you cannot.There are some partner lenders who allow a co-signer to be released from their loan obligation after you and your co-signer have met certain requirements. Will my co-signer see my information? No, co-signers and borrowers cannot view each other’s profile at any point during the process unless you add one another as an approved third party on each other’s accounts. However, each of you will be able to see the loan product options provided by our partner lenders based on your combined profiles. A primary borrower will also be able to see if the co-signer did not qualify for prequalified rates. Can a co-signer later be released from their loan obligation? Yes, many of Credible's partner lenders offer the opportunity for a borrower to release their co-signer. To confirm whether a specific lender offers co-signer release, we recommend you visit the lender's website and review the Lender Profiles pages. I submitted my profile and have received prequalified rates, but now I’d like to add a co-signer to improve my options. What do I do? After receiving your prequalified rates, you will have the option to add a co-signer. You can add multiple co-signers and compare how each one improves your rates, or you can decide to continue alone. If your co-signer is available, they can fill out the form at the same time as you. Otherwise, you can have us email them instructions on how to complete their profile at their convenience. I’m a co-signer, do the Terms of Use apply to me? A co-signer is considered a Credible user and is subject to Credible’s Terms of Use, Privacy Policy, and other applicable policies. Am I accepting an offer by completing my Credible co-signer profile? No, by completing a co-signer profile you, along with the prospective borrower, are inquiring about potential options available from our partner lenders. After you both receive responses from Credible's partner lenders, you and the borrower would work together to choose a lender and option that meets both of your needs. Once you find an option that works for both of you, you can then select a specific lender and loan option. The both of you will then fill out some additional information and the partner lender you chose will conduct a hard credit inquiry and confirm your eligibility. If they are able to confirm your eligibility, the partner lender will come back with an offer of credit. If you choose to move forward at this time, then you are accepting an offer from the lender. About Credible What is Credible? Credible is a marketplace that allows you to compare financial products from multiple providers side-by-side. Credible is not a lender, a bank or a credit card issuer — we partner with the best financial service providers so that they can provide you with a variety of competitive options, enabling you to find the right financial product for your needs. Best of all, Credible is completely free! You can find out more about our company by clicking here. What makes Credible different from other comparison sites? With Credible’s lending marketplace, you can fill out a simple, two-minute form, and instantly see which lenders you qualify for and at what rates. These are personalized, prequalified rates based on your credit history. Checking your prequalified rates with Credible will not affect your credit score. Most other comparison sites will only provide you with generic information about a given financial service provider — the rates and information you see will not be specific to you and your credit history. You might be able to go to a specific lender’s website and see your personalized prequalified rates, but you’ll only be able to do this for one lender at a time. How does Credible get paid? Typically, with respect to our lending marketplace, our partners pay us a fee when borrowers that we refer to them take out a loan. With respect to our credit card partners, the credit card issuer pays us when a Credible user applies for a credit card and is approved. We do not charge Credible users for our service and the fees that we get paid do not impact the options you see or how those options are displayed on our site. Credit considerations Does Credible pull my credit? In order to provide personalized prequalified rates for the loan products on our site, Credible or its lender partners will perform a soft credit inquiry, as authorized by the prospective borrower. Soft credit inquiries do not affect your credit score. Once you choose a loan product on your Credible Dashboard, and once you decide to move forward with a particular lender, the lender will perform a hard credit inquiry. Likewise, when you apply for a credit card, the credit card issuer will perform a hard credit inquiry when you apply for a credit card. In sum, hard credit inquiries are performed by financial service providers when you apply for credit. How can multiple inquiries affect my credit score? One of the perks of using Credible is that you can submit a request for prequalified rates with multiple lenders at once to find out what options might be available to you, and it won’t affect your credit score. This is because at the prequalification stage a soft credit inquiry is performed, not a hard credit inquiry. Hard credit inquiries are performed by financial service providers when you apply for credit. Typically, a hard credit inquiry has up to a 5 point impact on a credit score. When you choose to move forward with a specific partner lender on your Credible Dashboard, you agree to the lender’s terms of use, disclosures and other applicable policies. When you agree to these next steps with the lender, you are agreeing to allow your chosen lender to conduct a hard credit inquiry in order to further assess your creditworthiness and eligibility for the loan product you have chosen. Similarly, when you apply for a credit card, you will authorize the credit card issuer to conduct a hard credit inquiry. FICO, the provider of the most commonly used credit scores, considers credit inquiries for the same type of financial product over a typical shopping period (less than 30 days) as “rate shopping”, and counts them as a single inquiry against your credit score. For example, if you are shopping for a loan with multiple lenders at once over a 30 day period or less, the credit bureaus will likely count this as a single inquiry. FICO has provided a detailed note on the topic entitled “How do FICO scores consider student loan shopping”, and explains the concept and impact of “rate shopping” under Credit Basics – Credit Checks & Inquiries. How strong of a credit score do I need to get a loan through your site? The fastest way to see if you qualify is to fill out Credible’s two-minute prequalification form. It’s quick, simple and free! You’ll find out almost instantly whether you prequalify with any of our partner lenders. And, checking these prequalified rates will not affect your credit score. If you have a limited or poor credit history, adding a creditworthy co-signer can improve your chances of prequalifying for a loan. We have a tool that enables you to check your rates with a number of different co-signers so you can see which of your prospective co-signers may help you prequalify with the best rates. My account How do I update my account details and change my password? You can edit your email address and password from your User Profile page. How do I terminate my Credible account? You can terminate your Credible account by emailing support@credible.com and instructing Credible to terminate your account. Your Credible profile data will be removed from the website at www.credible.com within 1-2 business days. We will retain your identifiable information as appropriate under state and federal law. See personalized rates from multiple lenders in 2 minutes. Check Rates Contact Us Have questions? We’re here to help. support@credible.com Chat Now 866-540-6005 Monday - Thursday 9am - 9pm ET Friday 9am - 7pm ET Sat 10am - 6pm ET Sun Closed PRODUCT Student Loan Refi Student Loans Mortgage Refi Personal Loans Credit Cards SUPPORT FAQ Security LENDERS Student Loan Lenders Student Loan Refi Lenders Personal Loan Lenders Home Loans & Refinancing Lenders PARTNERS Affiliates Employers Financial Advisors COMPANY Blog Careers Press LEGAL Terms of Use Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices GLBA Privacy Policy CCPA - Workforce Notice CCPA - B2B Notice © 2023 Credible FIND US Credible support email Credible facebook Credible twitter Credible Operations, Inc. NMLS ID# 1681276 | NMLS Consumer Access | Licenses and Disclosures | Not available in all states. Prequalified rates are not an offer of credit.