Portal:Current events - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Languages Language links are at the top of the page across from the title. Search Search Create account Log in Personal tools Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Portal:Current events 115 languages Ænglisc العربية অসমীয়া Авар Azərbaycanca تۆرکجه বাংলা Banjar Bân-lâm-gú Башҡортса Беларуская भोजपुरी Bikol Central Català Чӑвашла Cebuano Čeština Dagbanli Dansk डोटेली Ελληνικά Эрзянь Español Esperanto Estremeñu Euskara Eʋegbe فارسی Føroyskt Français Gaeilge Gaelg 贛語 ગુજરાતી 客家語/Hak-kâ-ngî 한국어 Հայերեն हिन्दी Hrvatski Bahasa Indonesia Interlingua Ирон IsiZulu Íslenska Kapampangan ქართული Қазақша Kurdî Ladino Latina Lëtzebuergesch Lietuvių Li Niha Limburgs Magyar मैथिली മലയാളം मराठी مصرى مازِرونی Bahasa Melayu Minangkabau Монгол မြန်မာဘာသာ Nāhuatl Nederlands नेपाली नेपाल भाषा 日本語 Napulitano Нохчийн Occitan Oʻzbekcha / ўзбекча ਪੰਜਾਬੀ پنجابی ភាសាខ្មែរ Piemontèis Polski Português Qaraqalpaqsha Română Русиньскый Русский Scots Shqip Sicilianu සිංහල سنڌي Slovenčina Slovenščina Soomaaliga کوردی Српски / srpski Sunda Suomi Svenska Tagalog தமிழ் Татарча / tatarça ไทย Тоҷикӣ ᏣᎳᎩ Українська اردو Vepsän kel’ Tiếng Việt Volapük Walon 文言 吴语 ייִדיש Yorùbá 粵語 Zeêuws 中文 Edit links Portal Talk English Read View source View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read View source View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Portal maintenance status: (October 2020) This portal's subpages have been checked by an editor, and are needed. Please take care when editing, especially if using automated editing software. Learn how to update the maintenance information here. Wikipedia portal for content related to Current events Edit instructions Worldwide current events Sports events Recent deaths Entry views by week list Topics in the news Fran Drescher Flooding and landslides in South Korea leave at least 40 people dead and 9 others missing. In the United States, actors in the SAG-AFTRA trade union (president Fran Drescher pictured) go on strike, joining writers in the Writers Guild of America strike. Flooding and landslides in northern India leave at least 100 people dead. Czech-French writer Milan Kundera dies at the age of 94. Ongoing: Russian invasion of Ukraine Sudan conflict Recent deaths: Ernst-Ludwig Petrowsky Jane Birkin Marie-Laure de Decker Mel Wakabayashi Al Giordano Tan Yock Lin Nominate an article July 18, 2023 (2023-07-18) (Tuesday) edit history watch July 17, 2023 (2023-07-17) (Monday) edit history watch Armed conflicts and attacks Russian invasion of Ukraine 2023 Crimean Bridge explosion A couple are killed and their daughter is injured during explosions at the Crimean Bridge. (Reuters) (The Guardian) Black Sea Grain Initiative The agreement to allow safe passage of grain exports from Ukrainian ports, in effect since July 2022, expires following Russia's refusal to renew the deal. (Reuters) Disasters and accidents 2023 Pacific typhoon season Authorities report that monsoon rains aggravated by Tropical Storm Talim have affected the northern Philippines, killing a person during a landslide in Rizal. Nine crew members of a fishing vessel who went missing off Camarines Norte are rescued off Camarines Sur. (The Philippine Star) (Abante Tonite) Thirteen people are killed and five others are injured when a building collapses in Cairo, Egypt. (Al-Ahram) International relations Political status of Western Sahara, Israel–Morocco relations Israel recognizes Morocco's sovereignty over Western Sahara. (The Jerusalem Post) Politics and elections Singaporean Parliament Speaker Tan Chuan-Jin and backbencher Cheng Li Hui resign from the Parliament of Singapore and the ruling People's Action Party after admitting to having an extramarital affair. (CNA) July 16, 2023 (2023-07-16) (Sunday) edit history watch Armed conflicts and attacks Anglophone Crisis Ten people are killed and two others are injured as gunmen open fire at a busy junction in Bamenda, Northwest Region, Cameroon. (Reuters) Transnistrian communist and opposition leader Oleg Khorzhan is assassinated during a stabbing attack in his office. (RIA Novosti) Business and economy Corporate responses to the Russian invasion of Ukraine Russian President Vladimir Putin authorizes a temporary state takeover of French agribusiness Danone and Carlsberg-owned brewer Baltika's shares, as part of a wider response to many private companies, including these two, reducing their business operations in Russia amid the ongoing war in Ukraine. (AFP via South China Morning Post) Disasters and accidents List of earthquakes in 2023 A 7.2 magnitude earthquake strikes off the coast of Alaska, United States, causing a tsunami warning to be issued for the region. (ABC News) Four people are killed and 13 more injured during a building collapse in Beheira Governorate, Egypt. (Al-Ahram) More than 50 whales die in a mass beaching incident on the Traigh Mhòr beach in North Tolsta, Outer Hebrides, Scotland, United Kingdom, while 12 others are euthanised following failed attempts to refloat them due to adverse conditions. (WION) Six people are killed and three others are injured in a car crash in Tacoma, Washington, United States. (AP) At least four people are killed and seven others are hospitalized when a water bus carrying 20 passengers capsizes in the Buriganga River near Dhaka, Bangladesh. A rescue operation is ongoing. (Reuters via Hindustan Times) The Office of Civil Defense in the Philippines reports that search and rescue operations are ongoing for nine passengers of a fishing vessel who went missing off Mercedes, Camarines Norte, earlier this week. (Philippine News Agency via Manila Bulletin) Health and environment 2023 Asia heat wave Japan issues heat stroke warnings in 20 of its prefectures due to near-record high temperatures, reaching nearly 40 °C (104 °F) in some areas, with the country's meteorological agency indicating the possibility of surpassing the highest ever recorded temperature of 41.1 °C (106.0 °F). (AFP via The Hindu) At an Alzheimer's Association conference in Amsterdam, Netherlands, experts in Alzheimer's disease propose a new seven-point diagnostic scale that incorporates advancements in testing for key Alzheimer's-related proteins and aims to facilitate more personalized treatment strategies. (Reuters) International relations Accession of the United Kingdom to CPTPP Business and Trade Secretary Kemi Badenoch formally signs the accession protocol for the United Kingdom to join the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership. (Nikkei Asia) Law and crime Iranian protests against compulsory hijab Iranian Morality Police resume patrols to enforce hijab compliance. (Al Jazeera) A large protest occurs in the city of Rasht in response to the Morality Police's unsuccessful attempt to arrest three unveiled women. The crowd pushes the police back before security forces intervene with tear gas. (Iran International) Andre Longmore, the suspected gunman in a mass shooting in Hampton, Georgia, United States, is shot and killed by police, ending a manhunt for him. (NBC News) Sports 2023 ATP Tour 2023 Wimbledon Championships In tennis, Carlos Alcaraz of Spain defeats Novak Djokovic of Serbia in the final to win the men's singles title at the 2023 Wimbledon Championships, becoming the first non-Big Four player to win the tournament since 2002. (USA Today) 2023 CONCACAF Gold Cup In association football, Mexico win their ninth CONCACAF Gold Cup title after defeating Panama 1–0 in the final at SoFi Stadium in Inglewood, California, United States, with Santiago Giménez scoring the winner in the 88th minute. Panama's Adalberto Carrasquilla is awarded the tournament's Golden Ball. (AP) July 15, 2023 (2023-07-15) (Saturday) edit history watch Disasters and accidents 2023 South Korea floods Thirty-seven people are killed, several others are missing, and many are injured in South Korea when torrential rains cause landslides and the overflow of a dam in North Chungcheong, prompting the evacuation of over 4,700 people nationwide. Prime Minister Han Duck-soo calls for the deployment of the military to conduct search and rescue operations. (AP) A wildfire prompts the evacuation of over 2,000 residents on La Palma, Canary Islands, Spain, decimating around 4,500 hectares and destroying about a dozen homes. (AP) A fire breaks out and destroys the Royal Albion Hotel, a 196-year-old Grade II* listed building, in Brighton and Hove, England, United Kingdom. (Sky News) (iNews) Health and environment 2023 European heat waves The Italian health ministry issues an "extreme" health risk warning for 16 cities, including Florence and Rome, as the European Space Agency reports that potential record-breaking temperatures of up to 48 °C (118 °F) could be reached. (CNN) International relations North Korea–Russia relations Russia announces that it will investigate whether the North Korean Hwasong-18 missile landed in the country's exclusive economic zone. (Reuters via NBC News) South Korea–Ukraine relations South Korean President Yoon Suk-yeol makes an unannounced visit to Kyiv and meets with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, announcing that South Korea will pledge US$150 million in additional aid to Ukraine. (AP via The Guardian) Law and crime Four people are killed in a mass shooting in Hampton, Georgia, United States. (Metro) (The New York Times) Sports 2023 WTA Tour 2023 Wimbledon Championships In tennis, Markéta Vondroušová of the Czech Republic defeats Ons Jabeur of Tunisia in the final, 6–4, 6–4 to win the women's singles title at the 2023 Wimbledon Championships, becoming the first unseeded player in history to win the Wimbledon title. (AFP via ABS-CBN News) July 14, 2023 (2023-07-14) (Friday) edit history watch Arts and culture 2023 Hollywood labor disputes 2023 SAG-AFTRA strike Universal announces that the upcoming red carpet premiere for the Oppenheimer film has been cancelled amidst the SAG-AFTRA strikes. The film is still expected to be screened. (Screen International) Business and economy Foxconn, a tech giant headquartered in Taiwan, announces that it has made a deal with Karnataka, a state in India, to buy 300 acres of land for a new iPhone factory. (Economic Times) International relations Nagorno-Karabakh conflict Armenia–Azerbaijan border crisis Azerbaijan's State Border Service reopens the Lachin corridor to allow the Red Cross to conduct medical evacuations from Nagorno-Karabakh to Armenia amid protests over the corridor's closure on July 11 and humanitarian concerns. (AFP via France 24) Law and crime Gilgo Beach serial killings A suspect in the Long Island serial murders is arrested in Massapequa Park, New York, United States. (The Independent) Protests against Quran desecration in Sweden Police authorize a protest involving the burning of the Bible and the Torah outside the Israeli embassy in Stockholm following a series of anti-Islam demonstrations involving Quran desecration across the country. Israeli officials have urged the Swedish government to prevent the act. (AP) Politics and elections 2023 Cambodian general election Two members of the opposition Candlelight Party are arrested for allegedly encouraging voters to spoil ballots ahead of the election. (AFP via The Guardian) Science and technology Japanese space program An Epsilon S solid-propellant rocket upper stage, an upgraded version of JAXA's Epsilon launch vehicle, explodes about a minute after ignition during a test in Akita Prefecture. (AFP via CNA) The Indian Space Research Organization launches Chandrayaan-3 on a mission to the Moon. The mission will deploy the Vikram lander and Pragyan rover to study the Moon's surface for two weeks. The mission is similar to the failed Chandrayaan-2 mission, which crashed shortly before landing in 2019. (Space.com) Sports 2023 Pacific Four Series In women's rugby union, New Zealand win their second consecutive Pacific Four Series title after defeating the United States 39–17 at TD Place Stadium in Ottawa, Ontario, Canada. (BBC Sport) July 13, 2023 (2023-07-13) (Thursday) edit history watch Armed conflicts and attacks Russian invasion of Ukraine Attacks on civilians in the Russian invasion of Ukraine A Russian drone attack on Kyiv injures at least two civilians and damages infrastructure. (BBC News) Sudan conflict Battle of Geneina The United Nations reports the discovery of a mass grave in the area of Geneina, West Darfur, Sudan, believed to contain at least 87 individuals, including women and children, reportedly killed by the Rapid Support Forces and an affiliated Arab militia. (AP) Somali Civil War Four people are killed in Jubaland, Somalia, after al-Shabaab is confirmed to have captured a military base in the area which had been handed to Somalia by the Kenyan military on June 29. (Xinhua) Arts and culture 2023 SAG-AFTRA strike, 2023 Writers Guild of America strike The members of SAG-AFTRA announce that they will join the writers on a strike following failed negotiations with the Alliance of Motion Picture and Television Producers. (CNBC) Disasters and accidents After heavy rainfall in Delhi, India, the Yamuna reaches record-high water levels, resulting in flood warnings and evacuations. (Bloomberg via Al-Arabiya) (NDTV) Health and environment Birth control in the United States The Food and Drug Administration approves the first over-the-counter contraceptive pill, the Perrigo-manufactured Opill, broadening access to birth control across the country. (AFP via France 24) International relations Marshall Islands–United States relations Nuclear testing at Bikini Atoll, Pacific Proving Grounds The foreign ministry of the Marshall Islands calls for more United States compensation over nuclear weapons testing, including on Bikini Atoll, in an effort to improve bilateral relations. (Reuters) Colombia–Nicaragua relations, Territorial disputes of Nicaragua The International Court of Justice dismisses Nicaragua's bid to extend its maritime territory beyond 200 nautical miles, upholding the allocation of seven Caribbean islands to Colombia in a 2012 ruling. (AFP via RFI) Law and crime Jacob Zuma corruption charges The Constitutional Court of South Africa dismisses former president Jacob Zuma's appeal to legalize his medical parole and ruling he must complete his 15-month prison sentence for contempt of court. (AFP via The Moscow Times) Politics and elections Aftermath of the 2023 Guatemalan general election The Guatemalan Public Ministry seizes information related to the Movimiento Semilla party at the offices of the Supreme Electoral Tribunal in Guatemala City. The tribunal announces that it will legally appeal the resolution that ordered the suspension of the party's registration, claiming that the resolution is unconstitutional. (Prensa Libre) (Prensa Libre 2) The Semilla party files an appeal before the Constitutional Court. The Court accepts the appeal, allowing the party to participate in the second round of the election on August 20. However, according to the criteria of jurists, the legal recourse granted is ambiguous. (Prensa Libre) Sports 2024 Summer Olympics, Non-government reactions to the Russian invasion of Ukraine The International Olympic Committee says that athletes from Russia and Belarus will not receive invitations to the Summer Olympic Games in Paris, France, and will only be able to compete as neutral athletes. (The Hill) July 12, 2023 (2023-07-12) (Wednesday) edit history watch Armed conflicts and attacks Russian invasion of Ukraine Attacks on civilians in the Russian invasion of Ukraine Russian forces strike a residential area in Zaporizhzhia, injuring 18 civilians, including six children. (Reuters) An 81-year-old man is killed and his wife is injured due to Russian shelling in Kherson. (The Guardian) Israeli–Lebanese conflict Three Hezbollah members are injured by Israeli strikes near the Blue Line with the Israel Defense Forces accusing Hezbollah of attempting to destroy the border barrier. (AFP via France 24) Insurgency in Balochistan Nine soldiers, five Tehreek-e-Jihad Pakistan gunmen, and a civilian passerby are killed in a shootout at a security checkpoint in Zhob, Balochistan, Pakistan. Five other soldiers are injured. (AP) Arts and culture Censorship in the Philippines The Philippines' film review board requests that American film distributor Warner Bros. Pictures censor a scene in the upcoming film Barbie that includes a map displaying the internationally contested nine-dash line in the South China Sea before releasing the film in the country. (BBC News) In a study published in PLOS One, researchers identify subtle modifications to ancient Egyptian funerary artworks, such as the repositioning of Ramesses II's sceptre and changes in the pigmentation used for skin color, using portable imaging and chemical analysis techniques. These findings suggest a higher degree of creativity among ancient Egyptian artists than was previously recognized. (AFP via The Manila Times) Business and economy 2022–2023 Pakistani economic crisis The International Monetary Fund approves a US$3 billion bailout deal for Pakistan to avert its potential debt defaults and regain economic stability. (AP) 2022–2023 food crises India's food ministry reports a 341% surge in tomato prices from ₹24.68 (US$0.30) to ₹108.92 ($1.33) per kilogram, attributed to extreme weather and the tomato mosaic virus affecting major tomato-producing states. Farmers have reported incidents of tomato theft in response to the report. (CNBC) Tourism in Indonesia Bali announces the imposition of a IDR 150,000 (US$10) tourist tax for foreign visitors from 2024, aiming to preserve the island's culture and environment. (AFP via Arab News) Disasters and accidents Tornadoes of 2023 A series of tornadoes strike Chicago, Illinois, United States, prompting complete ground stops at O'Hare and Midway International Airports. (WFLD-TV) Three people are killed and 14 others are injured when a Greyhound passenger bus crashes into three parked trucks at a rest area off Interstate 70 in Madison County, Illinois, U.S. (AP via The Guardian) International relations Iran–Russia relations Iran summons the Russian ambassador over a joint statement issued by Russia and the Gulf Cooperation Council over three islands disputed by the United Arab Emirates. (Reuters) Japan–North Korea relations, North Korea–United States relations North Korea fires a Hwasong-18 intercontinental ballistic missile into waters near Japan. This comes a day after North Korea threatened the United States, claiming that an American spy plane entered the country's exclusive economic zone multiple times on Monday. (AP) (CNN) Myanmar–Thailand relations, Myanmar civil war Thai deputy prime minister and foreign minister Don Pramudwinai announces that he visited jailed Myanmar democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi last week, becoming the first known foreign representative to meet with the deposed state counsellor since the 2021 coup d'état. (AFP via CNA) 2023 Vilnius summit At the NATO summit in Vilnius, Lithuania, G7 officials announce that they have unveiled a international framework for Ukraine’s long-term security in a effort to boost their defense against Russia and deter them from any future aggression. The measures will include bilateral talks, military hardware, training, intelligence-sharing, and other plans to rebuild the country’s economy. (Politico EU) (Reuters) Serbia–United States relations The United States imposes sanctions on Aleksandar Vulin, a top Serbian official considered "Moscow's man". (Yahoo! News) UNESCO accepts the U.S. as a member after it withdrew from the organization in 2018. (Euronews) Law and crime Singaporean prime minister Lee Hsien Loong places Transport Minister S. Iswaran on an immediate leave of absence amid an ongoing corruption investigation by the Corrupt Practices Investigation Bureau into Iswaran and other individuals. (Reuters) Six people are killed during protests in Nairobi, Kenya, against tax increases imposed by President William Ruto's government, in which the police have employed tear gas and heightened security measures. (AFP via France 24) Politics and elections Aftermath of the 2023 Guatemalan general election At the request of the Guatemalan Public Ministry, a judge orders the Supreme Electoral Tribunal to suspend the legal personality of candidate Bernardo Arévalo's Movimiento Semilla party, which went on to the second round of elections on 20 August. The legal measure would leave Arévalo out of the election. (The Guardian) After several days of delay, the Supreme Electoral Tribunal makes the electoral results official and calls for the second round of elections between Sandra Torres and Bernardo Arévalo. (AP via ABC News) Aftermath of the 2023 Thai general election Thailand's election commission petitions the Constitutional Court to suspend leading prime ministerial candidate Pita Limjaroenrat, alleging his violation of campaign laws due to prior share ownership in a media company, iTV. (AFP via Le Monde) LGBT rights in Indonesia An ASEAN LGBT event scheduled in Indonesia is relocated to an undisclosed location due to received security threats and anti-LGBT rhetoric from various groups. (Reuters) More July 2023 events... Time: 00:41 UTC|Day: 18 July ◀July 2023▶ S M T W T F S 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 More July 2023 events... About this page Report a dispute • News about Wikipedia Ongoing events Disasters 2023 Asia heat wave 2023 Canadian wildfires Opioid epidemic (United States) Economics 2020–present global chip shortage 2021–2023 global energy crisis 2021–2023 inflation surge 2022–2023 food crises 2023 banking crisis Great Resignation Lebanese liquidity crisis Pakistan economic crisis South African energy crisis Sri Lankan economic crisis Turkish economic crisis United Kingdom cost-of-living crisis Zimbabwean hyperinflation Politics Belarus–European Union border crisis Ecuadorian political crisis French pension reform unrest Haitian crisis Israeli judicial reform protests Lebanese presidential election Libyan crisis Myanmar protests North Kosovo crisis Peruvian political crisis Serbian protests Ukrainian refugee crisis United Kingdom railway strikes Venezuelan crisis edit section Elections and referendums Recent July 9: Uzbekistan, President Upcoming 23: Cambodia, National Assembly 23: Spain, Senate, Congress of Deputies edit section Trials Recently concluded United States: Robert Gregory Bowers, Danny Masterson Ongoing Armenia: Serzh Sargsyan Ecuador: Guillermo Lasso Guinea: Moussa Dadis Camara Israel: Benjamin Netanyahu Italy: Matteo Salvini Kosovo: Specialist Chambers Malta: Yorgen Fenech Philippines: Leila de Lima Sudan: Omar al-Bashir United Kingdom: Kevin Spacey United States: YNW Melly, Young Thug Vatican City: Giovanni Angelo Becciu ICC: Ali Kushayb, Al Hassan Ag Abdoul Aziz edit section Sport Association football 2023 Copa Libertadores 2023 MLS season 2023 Brasileirão 2023 NWSL season 2023 Primera División Athletics 2023 Diamond League Australian rules football 2023 AFL season Baseball 2023 MLB season Basketball 2023 WNBA season International cricket 2023–25 ICC World Test Championship Canadian football 2023 CFL season Golf 2022–23 PGA Tour 2023 PGA Tour Champions 2023 Ladies European Tour 2023 European Tour 2023 LPGA Tour Motorsport 2023 Formula One World Championship 2023 MotoGP World Championship 2023 NASCAR Cup Series 2023 IndyCar Series Rugby league 2023 NRL season 2023 State of Origin series Rugby union 2023 Rugby Championship Tennis 2023 ATP Tour 2023 WTA Tour Other sports seasons 2023–24 curling season 2023–24 snooker season More details – current sports events edit section Recent deaths July 16: Jane Birkin 12: André Watts 11: Mike Halac 11: Milan Kundera 11: Ales Pushkin 11: Oleg Tsokov 10: Alan Wilkie 9: Manny Coto 9: Andrea Evans 9: Benno C. Schmidt Jr. 9: Luis Suárez 8: Evelyn M. Witkin 7: Mary Ann Hoberman 7: Nikki McCray-Penson 6: Brendan Daly 6: Arnaldo Forlani 6: Peter Nero 6: Mutulu Shakur 5: Coco Lee 3: James Dobbins 3: Mo Foster 3: Léon Gautier 3: Yan Mingfu 2: Susan Love 2: Milan Milutinović 1: Lawrence Turman 1: Victoria Amelina 1: Dilano van 't Hoff June 30: Darren Drozdov 29: Alan Arkin 29: Christine King Farris 29: Marvin Kitman 29: Stephen Owen 28: Sue Johanson 28: Corazon Nuñez Malanyaon 28: Lowell Weicker 27: Bobby Osborne 27: Carmen Sevilla 26: Craig Brown 26: Lloyd Erskine Sandiford 25: David Bohrman 25: James Crown 25: John B. Goodenough 25: Richard Ravitch 25: Peg Yorkin 24: Raymond Cassagnol 24: Dean Smith 23: Frederic Forrest 23: Sheldon Harnick 22: Peter Brötzmann 22: Harry Markowitz 21: Winnie Ewing 20: H. Lee Sarokin 18: Hamish Harding edit section Ongoing conflicts Global War against the Islamic State Africa Cameroon Anglophone Crisis Central African Republic Civil war Democratic Republic of the Congo Allied Democratic Forces insurgency Kivu conflict Ethiopia Oromo conflict Mozambique Insurgency in Cabo Delgado Nigeria Boko Haram insurgency Sahel Burkina Faso insurgency Mali War Somalia Civil war Sudan SAF−RSF conflict Americas Colombia Colombian conflict Mexico Mexican drug war Asia−Pacific Afghanistan Islamic State–Taliban conflict Republican insurgency India Insurgency in Jammu and Kashmir Insurgency in Northeast India Naxalite–Maoist insurgency Indonesia Papua conflict Myanmar Civil war Rohingya conflict Pakistan Insurgency in Balochistan Insurgency in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Philippines Communist rebellion Thailand South Thailand insurgency Europe Russia and Ukraine Russian invasion of Ukraine Middle East Egypt Sinai insurgency Iraqi conflict Islamic State insurgency Israel and Palestine Gaza–Israel conflict Nagorno-Karabakh Armenia–Azerbaijan border crisis Syrian civil war Foreign involvement Iran–Israel conflict Turkish intervention U.S.–led intervention Turkey Kurdish–Turkish conflict Yemeni civil war Saudi Arabian–led intervention Houthi–Saudi Arabian conflict See also – List of ongoing proxy wars edit section 2023 events and developments by topic Arts Animation (Anime) · Architecture · Comics · Film (Horror, Science fiction) · Literature (Poetry) · Music (Classical, Country, Hip hop, Jazz, Latin, Metal, Rock, UK, US, Korea) · Radio · Television (Australia, Canada, Ireland, UK, Scotland, US) · Video games Politics and government Elections · International leaders · Sovereign states · Sovereign state leaders · Territorial governors Science and technology Archaeology · Biotechnology · Computing · Palaeontology · Quantum computing and communication · Senescence research · Space/Astronomy · Spaceflight · Sustainable energy research Environment and environmental sciences Climate change · Weather (Heat waves · Tornadoes · Wildfires) Transportation Aviation · Rail transport · Transportation technology By place Afghanistan · Albania · Algeria · Andorra · Angola · Antarctica · Antigua and Barbuda · Argentina · Armenia · Australia · Austria · Azerbaijan · Bangladesh · The Bahamas · Bahrain · Barbados · Belarus · Belgium · Belize · Benin · Bhutan · Bolivia · Bosnia and Herzegovina · Botswana · Brazil · Brunei · Bulgaria · Burkina Faso · Burundi · Cambodia · Cameroon · Canada · Cape Verde · Central African Republic · Chad · Chile · China · Colombia · Costa Rica · Comoros · Congo · D.R. Congo · Croatia · Cuba · Cyprus · Czech Republic · Denmark · Djibouti · Dominica · Dominican Republic · East Timor · Ecuador · Egypt · El Salvador · Eritrea · Estonia · Ethiopia · Eswatini · Equatorial Guinea · Fiji · Finland · France · Gabon · The Gambia · Georgia · Germany · Ghana · Greece · Grenada · Guatemala · Guinea · Guinea-Bissau · Guyana · Haiti · Honduras · Hong Kong · Hungary · Iceland · India · Indonesia · Iran · Iraq · Ireland · Israel · Italy · Ivory Coast · Jamaica · Japan · Jordan · Kazakhstan · Kenya · Kiribati · Kosovo · Kuwait · Kyrgyzstan · Laos · Latvia · Lebanon · Lesotho · Liberia · Liechtenstein · Libya · Lithuania · Luxembourg · Macau · Madagascar · Marshall Islands · Malawi · Malaysia · Maldives · Mali · Malta · Mauritania · Mauritius · Mexico · Micronesia · Moldova · Monaco · Mongolia · Montenegro · Morocco · Mozambique · Myanmar · Nauru · Namibia · Nepal · Netherlands · New Zealand · Nicaragua · Niger · Nigeria · North Korea · North Macedonia · Norway · Oman · Pakistan · Palau · Palestine · Panama · Papua New Guinea · Paraguay · Peru · Philippines · Poland · Portugal · Qatar · Romania · Russia · Rwanda · Saint Kitts and Nevis · Saint Lucia · Saint Vincent and the Grenadines · Samoa · San Marino · São Tomé and Príncipe · Saudi Arabia · Senegal · Serbia · Seychelles · Sierra Leone · Singapore · Slovakia · Slovenia · Somalia · South Africa · Solomon Islands · South Korea · South Sudan · Spain · Sri Lanka · Sudan · Suriname · Sweden · Switzerland · Syria · Taiwan · Tajikistan · Tanzania · Thailand · Togo · Tonga · Trinidad and Tobago · Tunisia · Turkey · Turkmenistan · Tuvalu · Uganda · Ukraine · United Arab Emirates · United Kingdom · United States · Uruguay · Uzbekistan · Vanuatu · Vatican City · Venezuela · Vietnam · Yemen · Zambia · Zimbabwe Establishments and disestablishments categories Establishments · Disestablishments Works and introductions categories Works · Introductions · Works entering the public domain Wikimedia Commons has media related to 2023. ...more edit section v t e Current events by month 2023 January February March April May June July 2022 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2021 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2020 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2019 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2018 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2017 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2016 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2015 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2014 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2013 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2012 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2011 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2010 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2009 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2008 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2007 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2006 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2005 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2004 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2003 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2002 January February March April May June July August September October November December Portal:Current events Calendars Discover Wikipedia using portals List of all portals List of all portals The arts portal The arts portal Biography portal Biography portal Current events portal Current events portal Geography portal Geography portal History portal History portal Mathematics portal Mathematics portal Science portal Science portal Society portal Society portal Technology portal Technology portal Random portal Random portal WikiProject Portals WikiProject Portals Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events&oldid=1159745788" Categories: All portals 2023 by day Current events portal 2023 Current events WikiProject Current events History portals Hidden categories: Wikipedia pages protected against vandalism Portals with triaged subpages from October 2020 All portals with triaged subpages Portals with no named maintainer This page was last edited on 12 June 2023, at 08:26 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0;additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement Toggle limited content width