University of Toronto Skip to main content Welcome to University of Toronto Welcome to the newly improved utoronto.ca! Among other changes, you'll now find links to your email, Acorn and Quercus in the upper right corner of the page. Main menu tools Email Quercus Acorn Campus status Search the U of T website Search Jump to menu Jump to... News & Media About U of T Give to U of T Academics Programs of study Research & innovation University life Libraries A to Z directory News & Media About U of T Give to U of T Academics Programs of study Research & innovation University life Libraries A to Z directory Search the U of T website Search Main navigation Future students Current students Alumni Faculty and Staff Donors Visitors Main menu tools Email Quercus Acorn Campus status Main navigation Future students Current students Alumni Faculty and Staff Donors Visitors Jump to menu Jump to... News & Media About U of T Give to U of T Academics Programs of study Research & innovation University life Libraries A to Z directory News & Media About U of T Give to U of T Academics Programs of study Research & innovation University life Libraries A to Z directory U of T News Order of Canada recognizes U of T community members Your guide to the U of T community Visit Utogether Latest news July 17, 2023 Infants prefer live music over recorded version, study finds July 17, 2023 'It's a team effort': Electric car sparks international success for U of T students July 14, 2023 New autonomous lab at University of Toronto to improve drug formulation More U of T News Upcoming events May 3 to July 22, 2023 2023 University of Toronto MVS Studio Program Graduating Exhibition July 25, 2023 Set Yourself Up for Success: Planning Your Time August 3, 2023 Seminar: “We Should All Try to Save the Planet” More U of T events U of T Celebrates The University of Toronto is home to some of the world’s top faculty, students, alumni and staff. U of T Celebrates recognizes their award-winning accomplishments. Explore U of T Celebrates Research & Innovation Daniel Drucker awarded 2023 Wolf Prize in Medicine In our latest issue: the incredible story of how Rohingya student Jaivet Ealom came to U of T, why we should study video games, the U of T Scarborough lab that aims to end hunger in Toronto. Plus: how AI could help doctors predict cardiac problems in children, 150 years of engineering firsts, the art of letterpress printing, and much more. Explore the issue Feature Campus Hunger Pains Food bank use in Toronto is soaring. Can a U of T Scarborough lab help? Main navigation repeated Future students Current students Alumni Faculty and Staff Donors Visitors Jump to menu repeated News & Media About U of T Give to U of T Academics Programs of study Research & innovation University life Libraries A to Z directory Quick links Contact Careers Accessibility Privacy Site feedback Site map Campus status Quick links St. George campus Mississauga campus Scarborough campus Campus maps Campus safety Statement of Land Acknowledgement We wish to acknowledge this land on which the University of Toronto operates. For thousands of years it has been the traditional land of the Huron-Wendat, the Seneca, and the Mississaugas of the Credit. Today, this meeting place is still the home to many Indigenous people from across Turtle Island and we are grateful to have the opportunity to work on this land. Read about U of T’s Statement of Land Acknowledgement. Social media directory UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO - SINCE 1827