Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Search Search Create account Log in Personal tools Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Main Page Main Page Talk English Read View source View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read View source View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons MediaWiki Meta-Wiki Wikimedia Outreach Multilingual Wikisource Wikispecies Wikibooks Wikidata Wikimania Wikinews Wikiquote Wikisource Wikiversity Wikivoyage Wiktionary From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Welcome to Wikipedia , the free encyclopedia that anyone can edit. 6,685,050 articles in English From today's featured article August 1896 cover of The Black Cat The Black Cat was an American fiction magazine launched in 1895 by Herman Umbstaetter. It published only short stories, and was known for originality and for promoting new writers. It was quickly successful, aided by the popularity of "The Mysterious Card", by Cleveland Moffett, which appeared in an early issue, selling out two print runs. Two of its best-known contributors were Jack London, whose 1899 story "A Thousand Deaths" sold just as he was about to give up attempting to become a writer, and Henry Miller, whose first published works were several short fiction critiques published in 1919. The magazine's ownership changed in 1912 and 1919 as its circulation declined, and it initially ceased publication in 1920. It was revived in 1922 by William Kane, but in early 1923, with estimated circulation down to only 15,000, it ceased publication for good. The magazine's icon, a black cat that appeared on almost every cover (example pictured), was drawn by the founder's wife, Nelly Umbstaetter. (Full article...) Recently featured: David Kelly (weapons expert) Katrina Kaif "Sweetheart" (Rainy Davis song) Archive By email More featured articles About Did you know ... Fronde wrecked in Hong Kong ... that the French destroyer Fronde was wrecked during the 1906 Hong Kong typhoon (pictured), killing five of her crew members? ... that Russian indie artist polnalyubvi bought her first guitar with money earned from busking with her violin? ... that although the Brooklyn Union Gas Company's original building, next to its replacement, was once described as having been "miraculously saved", the older building was demolished in 2004 without protest? ... that Barrie Trinder helped to raise the standing of industrial archaeology to that of a respected academic discipline in Britain? ... that the United States won the 2023 CONCACAF Nations League final and extended a home unbeaten streak against Canada that dates back to 1957? ... that Jazzy's "Giving Me" made her the first Irish solo female act to top the Irish Singles Chart since Julie-Anne Dineen in 2009 with "Do You Believe"? ... that Bill Pohlad, co-founder of film distributor Apparition, was surprised by his fellow co-founder Bob Berney's resignation? ... that cocalera activist Ancelma Perlacios, the first Afro-Bolivian to be elected to the Senate, was her organization's secretary of defense of the coca leaf? Archive Start a new article Nominate an article In the news Fran Drescher Flooding and landslides in South Korea leave at least 40 people dead and 9 others missing. In the United States, actors in the SAG-AFTRA trade union (president Fran Drescher pictured) go on strike, joining writers in the Writers Guild of America strike. Flooding and landslides in northern India leave at least 100 people dead. Czech-French writer Milan Kundera dies at the age of 94. Ongoing: Russian invasion of Ukraine Sudan conflict Recent deaths: Ernst-Ludwig Petrowsky Jane Birkin Marie-Laure de Decker Mel Wakabayashi Al Giordano Tan Yock Lin Nominate an article On this day July 18 54th Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry storming Fort Wagner 1290 – King Edward I issued an edict to expel all Jews from England. 1723 – Johann Sebastian Bach directed the first performance of his cantata Erforsche mich, Gott, und erfahre mein Herz in Leipzig. 1863 – American Civil War: Led by Colonel Robert Gould Shaw, the 54th Massachusetts Infantry Regiment, one of the first African-American military units in the Union Army, spearheaded an assault (pictured) on Fort Wagner, South Carolina. 1949 – Francisco Javier Arana, the chief of the Guatemalan armed forces, was killed in a shootout with supporters of President Juan José Arévalo. 2019 – An arson attack at the studio of Kyoto Animation in Japan led to the deaths of 36 people. Abu'l-Hasan Ali ibn al-Furat (d. 924) Lucy Smith Millikin (b. 1821) Nelson Mandela (b. 1918) Amy Gillett (d. 2005) More anniversaries: July 17 July 18 July 19 Archive By email List of days of the year Today's featured picture Henri Becquerel (1852–1908) was a French engineer and physicist who was the first person to discover evidence of radioactivity. Born in Paris into a family that also included the engineers Antoine César Becquerel, Edmond Becquerel and Jean Becquerel, he studied engineering at the École polytechnique and the École nationale des ponts et chaussées, going on to take up positions at the National Museum of Natural History and the French government's Department of Roads and Bridges, before being appointed as a professor at the École polytechnique. For his work in the field of radioactivity he received the 1903 Nobel Prize in Physics, alongside Marie Curie and Pierre Curie. The SI derived unit for radioactivity, the becquerel (Bq), is named after him. This portrait of Becquerel is an albumen paper print from a glass negative taken by Paul Nadar. Photograph credit: Paul Nadar; restored by Adam Cuerden Recently featured: Northrop Grumman B-2 Spirit Snowflake Jacek Malczewski Archive More featured pictures Other areas of Wikipedia Community portal – The central hub for editors, with resources, links, tasks, and announcements. Village pump – Forum for discussions about Wikipedia itself, including policies and technical issues. Site news – Sources of news about Wikipedia and the broader Wikimedia movement. Teahouse – Ask basic questions about using or editing Wikipedia. Help desk – Ask questions about using or editing Wikipedia. Reference desk – Ask research questions about encyclopedic topics. Content portals – A unique way to navigate the encyclopedia. Wikipedia's sister projects Wikipedia is written by volunteer editors and hosted by the Wikimedia Foundation, a non-profit organization that also hosts a range of other volunteer projects: Commons Free media repository MediaWiki Wiki software development Meta-Wiki Wikimedia project coordination Wikibooks Free textbooks and manuals Wikidata Free knowledge base Wikinews Free-content news Wikiquote Collection of quotations Wikisource Free-content library Wikispecies Directory of species Wikiversity Free learning tools Wikivoyage Free travel guide Wiktionary Dictionary and thesaurus Wikipedia languages This Wikipedia is written in English. Many other Wikipedias are available; some of the largest are listed below. 1,000,000+ articles العربية Deutsch Español Français Italiano Nederlands 日本語 Polski Português Русский Svenska Українська Tiếng Việt 中文 250,000+ articles Bahasa Indonesia Bahasa Melayu Bân-lâm-gú Български Català Čeština Dansk Esperanto Euskara فارسی‎ עברית 한국어 Magyar Norsk bokmål Română Srpski Srpskohrvatski Suomi Türkçe 50,000+ articles Asturianu বাংলা Bosanski Eesti Ελληνικά Simple English Frysk Gaeilge Galego Hrvatski ქართული Latviešu Lietuvių മലയാളം Македонски Norsk nynorsk ਪੰਜਾਬੀ Shqip Slovenčina Slovenščina ไทย తెలుగు Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Main_Page&oldid=1114291180" 47 languages العربية বাংলা Български Bosanski Català Čeština Dansk Deutsch Eesti Ελληνικά Español Esperanto Euskara فارسی Français Galego 한국어 Hrvatski Bahasa Indonesia Italiano עברית ქართული Latviešu Lietuvių Magyar Македонски Bahasa Melayu Nederlands 日本語 Norsk bokmål Norsk nynorsk Polski Português Română Русский Simple English Slovenčina Slovenščina Српски / srpski Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски Suomi Svenska ไทย Türkçe Українська Tiếng Việt 中文 This page was last edited on 5 October 2022, at 19:27 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0;additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement Toggle limited content width